The Project Gutenberg eBook, Third Annual Report of the Kensington
Parochial Institute, by Anonymous


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org





Title: Third Annual Report of the Kensington Parochial Institute


Author: Anonymous



Release Date: February 13, 2013  [eBook #42087]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THIRD ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
KENSINGTON PAROCHIAL INSTITUTE***


Transcribed from the 1852 W. Birch edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org.  Many thanks to the Royal Borough of Chelsea and
Kensington Libraries for allowing their copy to be used for this
transcription.





                                  THIRD
                              ANNUAL REPORT
                                  OF THE
                                Kensington
                           PAROCHIAL INSTITUTE.


                                * * * * *

                                  1852.

                                * * * * *

                                President.
                    THE VENERABLE ARCHDEACON SINCLAIR,
                           VICAR OF KENSINGTON.

                          Treasurer—MR. HAWKES.

                   Hon. Sec.—REV. S. PRICE DAVIES, M.A.

                                 Council.

MR. BELLWORTHY.           MR. WILLIAM HUNT.
— BIRD.                   — MERRIMAN.
— CLARKE.                 — SMITH.
— CURTIS.                 — STANHAM.
ADMIRAL DEACON.           — TASSIE.
MR. EALES.                — WADDILOVE.
REV. J. H. HOWLETT.       — WARNER.
MR. J. HUNT.

                                * * * * *

                               KENSINGTON:
                    PRINTED BY W. BIRCH, HIGH STREET.
                                  1853.

                                * * * * *

*** SUBSCRIPTIONS _and_ DONATIONS _to the Kensington Parochial Institute
will be received and acknowledged by the Treasurer_, MR. HAWKES,
_High-street_, _and the_ REV. S. PRICE DAVIES, _Hon. Sec._, 17, _Lower
Phillimore-place_.




THIRD ANNUAL REPORT.


THE Council of the Parochial Institute have pleasure in submitting for
the adoption of its members, and the consideration of the inhabitants of
Kensington, their Third Annual Report.

Having upon former occasions detailed the circumstances of its formation,
and demonstrated upon solid grounds the expediency of meeting the
increasing intellectual requirements of the community, by the
establishment, throughout the country, of societies for the diffusion of
a healthy literature, and a cultivated taste, it will be their present
purpose to recount their own success in stimulating these objects, while
suggesting to their fellow residents the privilege, policy, and duty of
enabling them to develop the existing agencies of mental recreation, by
liberally conceding to their claims an united and comprehensive support.

Nor will such a retrospect be interesting only to those more immediately
concerned in producing the results recorded.  The popular use of
reading-rooms, libraries, and lectures, is not connected with questions
of merely individual or local importance; it is of imperial bearing: for
while their multiplication and prosperity afford criteria for determining
how far the desire of knowledge animates the people, indifference to
learning and incapacity for self-instruction are attested by their
failure or neglect.  These are amongst the outward manifestations of
those unconscious tendencies by which the philosophical observer
estimates the bent and genius of the age.  As in the multitudes who
throng to gaze upon the line of armies manœuvring in the pomp of mimic
war, he reads the love of military glory, if not the lust of conquest; as
in an inordinate devotion to games, and theatres, and spectacles, he sees
the traits of frivolity; so in the steady application of the faculties to
the improvement of the mind he recognises the characteristics of a wise
and understanding people.  But these diversities of national choice and
temperament cannot be consigned to the speculations of the theorist.
They enter largely into the deliberations of the practical statesman.  By
their influence, the distribution of political power is confessedly
affected.  Rights that could not be confided to an ignorant, are freely
accorded to an educated population.  Already the principle of an
educational qualification has been mooted as the safest mode in which the
extension of the franchise could be granted; and in considering the
claims of various constituencies to a participation in the representation
of the country, it is far from impossible that the government would
accord a preference to localities, maintaining in efficiency and
prominence well organized institutions of social and intellectual
progress.

It is pleasing to reflect that this neighbourhood need not shrink from
such an inquiry.  For though its growth has been unprecedentedly rapid
for the last ten years, private liberality and public munificence have
combined to preserve its ancient pre-eminence over other suburban
parishes.  It is still in truth, as well as name, “the Royal Ville” of
Kensington.  But whilst it is creditable to its patriotism that it has
erected, within this recent period, four new churches, has built a
dispensary, and raised other public structures of much architectural
merit and of great utility; whilst in these edifices, dedicated to the
noblest ends, religion and humanity, evidences are shrined of an
enlightened and active desire of improvement, no attempt commensurate
with the importance of the town has yet been made to purchase or erect a
building where neighbour may meet neighbour in a spirit of good-will and
unity, and by intercourse and the exchange of daily courtesy, and the
pursuit of knowledge, which civilizes and blesses parishes as well as
nations, communities as well as individuals, and which ought ever to be
found in alliance with religion itself.

Kensington, central Kensington, with its parks, and gardens, and palace,
the birthplace and residence of monarchs, rich in historical
associations, almost the home of genius; where Cromwell swayed the
destinies of Europe; where William of Orange sojourned, Lord Chancellor
Nottingham dwelt, Sir Christopher Wren planned and built, and Sir Isaac
Newton solved the problems of astronomy; where George II.’s children
played, and Queen Victoria was born; which is linked in memory with the
names of Addison, Horner, Canning, Wellesley, Moore, Wilkie, and
Wilberforce, and still retains within its limits some of the most
distinguished authors and artists of the day, possesses no Public Museum,
no Public Library, not even a Lecture-Hall.

But though it be a matter of shame and disgrace that this omission has
never been adequately supplied, much of the substantial advantage
attached to the Athenæums of the manufacturing towns, and the
Bibliothèques of the continental cities, has been modestly provided by
the Parochial Institute.

Small though its reading-rooms unquestionably are, situated in a street
removed from the central thoroughfare, and of outward appearance but
little in unison with the wealth, respectability, and literary reputation
of St. Mary Abbott’s, they still are known and patronized.  From the date
of their opening, three years ago, they have been becoming more and more
frequented.  At first they were attended only by those who had joined the
Institution with the wish to encourage so good a work.  Now they are
subscribed to by many who appreciate their convenience for their own
sake.  This is a wholesome sign—the turning point of success in such an
undertaking.  For though it be necessary and right to bring to bear upon
an infant project all the extraneous aid that can promote its object, no
factitious support will permanently avail.  To ensure a prolonged
existence, it must be sustained by its own merits.  It is not till
interest comes to strengthen principle that the prosperous future is
secured.  But in a country constantly and triumphantly calling attention
to the freedom and purity of its press, it can hardly be necessary to
expatiate on the benefits accruing from its wide and impartial
circulation.  From the publication of Milton’s Areopagetica, these have
been acknowledged.  None can say how much the English habit of reading
newspapers tends to enlarge the national views.  Men cannot see, day
after day, the various problems of political and social moment, debated
before them by the ablest advocates, without confessing that cogent
reasons may be urged on either side.  Half an hour spent daily in
perusing the current reviews and magazines is usefully employed.  By it
the mind is kept informed of the events of contemporaneous history, is
enabled to form an independent judgment upon measures requiring the
sifting of discussion, and led to correct, modify, or expand any
sentiments too carelessly adopted, too obstinately defended, or too
narrowly based.

Thus silently, it may be, and unconsciously, prejudice succumbs to
reason, party strife is mitigated, and argument, not force, enthroned the
constituted arbiter of conflicting wills.  Hence arises the desirableness
of a Newsroom in every populous place, in which each phase of opinion may
be represented by its own peculiar organ.  Few private establishments
enjoy this privilege—most persons confine themselves to a single journal,
entertaining ideas precisely identical with their own.  They have
consequently nothing but a reflection of themselves.  They lose the
advantage of filtrating their notions through other minds.  Of old it was
said, “beware of the man of one book.”  But the man of one paper is
infinitely worse.  He usually fails to rise above the natural tendency to
a contracted sphere of thought, and rapidly subsides into a state of
one-sided conviction, as illiberal, as it is irrational.  This is a trial
to which no sensible inquirer after truth would willingly subject
himself.  On the contrary, he will concur in forwarding any plan to
obviate its danger.  The Parochial Institute embodies such a plan.
Therefore, he will enrol himself upon its list of members.

It must not, however, be supposed that facility of access to the
ephemeral publications is either the sole or the main intention of this
Society.  For whatever necessity exists for affording to the industrial
and operative bodies opportunities of consulting periodicals of approved
ability, morality, and loyalty, it can only be subordinate to the study
of more substantial literature.  Experience demonstrates that the habit
of reading once acquired, is seldom lost.  No obstacle ought consequently
to be suffered to interfere with its attainment.  The incipient student
should be free to range the entire field of knowledge.  All that its
ample page contains, should be unfolded for his choice.  And though his
early flights be wild, his attempts discursive, he will gradually
contract his circle, and settle down at last.  This has been
instructively verified by some of the quarterly subscribers, whose thirst
for light reading was at first excessive.  Three sets of novels per week
scarcely sufficed to satisfy this eager craving.  Now all this is
changed.  The catalogue of books procured from Churton’s, for 1852, shows
a most remarkable diminution in works of a romantic character.  Even
those demanded, are of a higher and better description.  But the staple
orders consist of travels, biographies, histories, and treatises on
religion.  Such facts throw light upon the probable working of free
libraries.  They bear out the belief, that if judiciously selected, and
kept up by successive additions of modern writers, a numerous attendance
and issue might be expected.  Nor would such an enterprise be attended by
any ruinous expense.  Excellent histories are now published for three
shillings a volume, while the pamphlets on miscellaneous subjects,
currently known under the name of Literature for the Rail, embrace some
of the most interesting essays, travels, and disquisitions in the
language.  The Council would bring this topic strongly before their
fellow-parishioners, in the hope of inducing many to make presents in
augmentation of the library that they now possess.  Its after increase
can be only a question of time.  A free library is the corollary and
supplement of national education.  Other parishes are beginning to
understand this.  Liverpool, Manchester, and Birmingham are setting a
good example.  Marylebone is about to follow in the same wise path.  It
is too palpable an error, to give the people an appetite for reading
without furnishing them with the means of satisfying it, for a long
continuance, in a country so practical as England.  Only let it be
admitted, and the remedy will not be withheld.  May Kensington take the
initiative in its rectification by applying it to its own requirements.

But the readiest access to books, the most unwearied diligence, and the
highest ability are not enough to render one man independent in a
scientific inquiry of the discoveries of another.  The more the
philosopher investigates the unseen causes of visible things, the more he
is compelled to have recourse to a division of labour.  Human life and
human memory are alike unable to grasp an universal knowledge.  Hence the
acutest intellects devote their powers to master definite departments of
science.  They do not aim at an impossible omniscience.  Relying on the
truth and ability of their collaborators, they receive their conclusions
as their own.  Nor are these communicated commonly in special treatises,
but through the more familiar media of lectures.  On such occasions, he
who is the teacher of to-day, is not too proud to be the pupil of
to-morrow.  Faraday, Murchison, Owen, and Herschell sit alternately at
each other’s feet.  But if this be true of these hierophants of nature,
what shall be said of her neophytes?  It is clear that to those engaged
in following their craft, their trade, or their profession, time is a
main object.  But if they cannot unravel processes, they fain would know
results.  These are easily attainable by the method above mentioned.  A
good lecture will oftentimes simplify abstruse problems, and make
intelligible the most complicated machine, when books and diagrams convey
no comprehensible meaning.  Perhaps no literary association in the
metropolis can bear witness to this fact with a more vivid realization of
its accuracy then our own.  Since the publication of the last report, we
have been familiarized with the wonders of creation in all the kingdoms
of nature.  With Mantell, we have read the records of primeval worlds,
traced by the finger of omnipotence in those fossilized remains, which
mock the palaces of Nineveh with their recent age.  With Morris, gathered
up the laws that regulate the distribution of the springs and waters of
the earth, and learnt how man can call its spirit from the chalky deeps
for purposes of use or ornament.  With Noad, investigated the phenomena
of light.  With Wheeler, ranged from star to star throughout the
immensity of space.  With Weld, explored the coasts and channels, creeks
and bays of those inhospitable regions which, clustering round the
Northern Pole, guard with indomitable tenacity the Western Passage,
despite the energy, endurance, and perseverance of the hardiest
adventurers.  With Pettigrew, examined the internal structure of the
microscopic insect.  With Scoresby, marvelled at the physical
organization of the whole.  One voice, which we had hoped to hear, was
silent.  Severe indisposition postponed for ever Professor Cowper’s
explanation of the cotton-mill.  Since then, both he and Dr. Mantell have
been summoned to their rest.  In the one, practical art laments its
clearest elucidator; in the other, science mourns her most attractive
commentator; in both, the Parochial Institute has sustained a grievous
loss.  Yet amongst its pleasantest associations must ever rank the
recollections of their lectures.  The idiomatic phraseology, homeliness
of illustration, unaffected delivery, and telling earnestness of
Professor Cowper, who by this very ease of manner beguiled you into the
idea that you were actually learning _with_ him, not _from_ him, will be
blended in the memory with Mantell’s graceful elocution, refined imagery,
and enthusiastic love of his favourite study, by the combined force of
which he carried his audience with him, and led their thoughts from
nature up to nature’s God.  Alike disinterested in character, alike
confident in the victory of knowledge over ignorance, alike the firm and
generous promoters of infant institutions founded to ensure this end,
they shone as twin stars in our local firmament, bright examples to the
possessors of similar endowments to consecrate their use with the same
unostentatious perseverance to the cause of goodness, civilization and
truth, bright examples to all as fosterers by personal exertion as well
as by pecuniary sacrifice of parochial societies appealing to every moral
and patriotic feeling for extension and support.  For the many lectures
that he delivered in Kensington, Mr. Cowper never accepted any
remuneration.  Dr. Mantell gave his services for half his customary fee.
Not, however, that they are the sole instances of this discriminating
benevolence.  To Mr. Weld and Dr. Scoresby, the cordial acknowledgments
of the Council are equally due and tendered for gratuitous addresses.  In
contrasting their generous dedication of time, convenience, and ability
to the task of popular enlightenment, with the selfish spirit that
repudiates whatever is not subservient to personal benefit or
gratification, it is impossible to overlook the elevating influence of
mental culture.  Of all the pleas for indifference to, or withdrawal from
an association for diffusing useful and scientific information, none is
so unworthy, so sordid, or so mean as that commonest of excuses, “_It
does me no good_.”

Such an allegation can only arise from a most short-sighted policy.  For,
let individual preference be what it may, the time is past for saying to
the advancing tide of scientific inquisition, “Thus far shalt thou go,
and no farther.”  The incessant discoveries and inventions of modern
years have quickened with the throes of mental energy the masses of the
nation.  Its strong sense is alive to the power of knowledge, and
circulates from the head to the extremities of the social body.  The
magnetic experiments, to which the whole philosophical world is looking
with the most intense curiosity, are conducted by one who entered life a
shop-boy.  The solution of deep metaphysical propositions is not without
attraction to the hard-headed ratiocination of the operatives of
Lancashire.  There are those who have wrestled out; by abstract
reasoning, the cardinal verity of the immortality of the soul.  The
mechanics of London number in their ranks many ardent thinkers.  When the
recent lecture on cohesion and gravitation was delivered at the Museum of
Practical Geology, so large an audience of working men was collected,
that, though the issue of tickets had been purposely increased, upwards
of two hundred persons were refused admission at the door.  Now it is
folly to ignore this spirit of investigation.  You may guide, you may
control, but can neither deny nor crush it.  Wisely, therefore, has the
government recognised its prevalence; wisely has the Queen recommended in
her speech from the throne, its association with practical art; and
wisely will those towns and cities act which avail themselves of whatever
facilities the legislature may decide upon offering, to give it salutary
scope and exercise.  In a circular forwarded from the Society of Arts to
the different Institutes of England, a series of questions was proposed
in reference to this end.  The answers returned by the Council will be
found in the Appendix, for the information of members and others, who
will then understand how real the movement is, and how great is the
expediency of frankly and heartily ensuring its success.  Should the
suggestions contained in this document be approved and carried into
execution, they can hardly fail to give an impulse to self-instruction;
while the annual exhibition of models, inventions, and machinery, would
afford an opportunity for the social intercourse and mutual improvement
ordinarily attached to the pleasant enjoyment of an evening
conversazione.

But are these aids to rational recreation really brought within the reach
of the industrial population?  Can the apprentices and shopmen of
Kensington afford to join the Institute?  Is not the cost of membership
too expensive for their purse?  Such can hardly be the case.  Admission
to the reading-room, library, and lectures is accorded to subscribers of
half-a-crown a quarter; while a yearly payment of one guinea gives its
donor a voice in the government of the society.  The analysis of these
sums shows a result of less than a half-penny a day for the former, and
of under sixpence a week to the latter class of contribution.  Frugality
itself cannot object to such a scale.  Taken individually, the advantages
are worth their price;—collectively, they are emphatically a bargain.

Subsidiary to the main channels of intellectual culture, are the
Elementary Evening Classes, held at the Church-court school, under the
superintendence of two masters from Battersea College.  They were
instituted for the sake of the young persons who are unable to attend the
day schools, and include a due proportion of adults.  The class for young
men and boys meets upon Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday; that for young
women and girls on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.  The attendances to the
close of 1852 were very satisfactory; 120 girls and 40 boys having
enrolled themselves upon the books.  An interesting peculiarity connected
with the female class is its use by servants whose education has been
neglected.  Several who could neither read nor write on their first
entrance, have attained a tolerable proficiency in these subjects; and of
those who have grown up to age for service, and taken situations, some
have been wise enough to return during their intervals of employment, to
pursue the studies with which the duties of their place had necessarily
for the season interfered.  The subjects now taught are limited to
reading, writing, arithmetic, and geography.  But it is proposed to add
music; and should the Society of Arts carry out its principles in this
parish, linear drawing, languages, geometry, and mathematics would also
be encouraged, were a sufficient number of names inscribed to constitute
a remunerating class.  The payment for the present course is two-pence
weekly, in advance; but proportionably higher fees would be required to
ensure the services of masters capable of conducting the higher branches
of education.

If these facilities for instruction are not accepted to the full extent
that might, prior to experience, have been expected, it ought not to
check the genial philanthropy by which they are provided.  All that we
can do is to offer privileges.  It rests with others to turn their use to
profit.  And if, in the attempt to raise the social and mental position
of those who minister to our daily wants, we are unable to achieve all
that we desire, it is still a noble and a worthy ambition, warranting the
sacrifice of some prejudices and the risk of many disappointments, to
endeavour so to order the arrangement of our literary and scientific
agencies that

    “Our needful knowledge, like our needful food,
    Unhedged lie open in life’s common field,
    And bid all welcome to the vital feast.”




APPENDIX.


THE chief advantages which might be expected to result from a combination
of the Provincial Institutes with the Society of Arts would be, in our
opinion, the following:—

α.  The formation of a Central Library, from which Local Institutes
might, from time to time, borrow supplies of Books on the same or more
reasonable terms than they can now procure them from the large
circulating libraries of the metropolis.

β.  A staff of Lecturers might be provided by the Society of Arts,
competent to give interesting and instructive information in a popular
form; such staff to be selected by a Council, who, from their position
and attainments, would be entitled to general confidence.  Each
Provincial Institute might be allowed to choose its own Lecturers from
this staff, without being necessarily restricted to it.

γ.  The models, diagrams, &c., now provided by the individual lecturers
at a considerable expense, and often with great personal trouble, might
be furnished by the Society from a central repository established for
that purpose.  Many of the articles required, particularly drawings and
diagrams, would probably be executed by the students of the School of
Design, who would thus possess an opportunity for the practical exercise
of their art.

δ.  That useful inventions and apparatus might be exhibited in the
various localities of the Metropolitan and Provincial Institutes; and if
the specimens were only shown for a short time in each place, a small
number of each article would suffice.  These circulating exhibitions
would probably be attractive, and perhaps excite more notice than
permanent museums.  The Society of Arts might lend the articles for
exposition gratuitously or at a low price, on condition that the
Institute supplied the room, and made itself responsible for loss or
damage.

ε.  That each Institute, in its collective capacity, would be considered
so far affiliated to the various Scientific, Literary, and Philosophical
Societies, as to receive annually, on application, a copy of the
Transactions, and as many tickets, for attending Meetings and Lectures,
as each Society may find it convenient to allow.




STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTS, 1852.

                         Received.                                                     Paid.
                                   _£_      _s._     _d._                                     _£_      _s._     _d._
Balance from 1851                       5        8       1½  Lectures and Use of Rooms            35       14        0
1 Subscription                          3        3        0  Hire of Pianofortes                   1       10        1
3 ,, at 2 Guineas.                      6        6        0  Subscriptions to Churton’s           16       16        0
87 ,, at 1 Guinea.                     91        7        0  Repairs                               5       16        6
10 Subscriptions                        5        7        6  Newspapers and Periodicals           25        7        1
96 Quarterly ditto                     12        0        0  Printing                              1       10        6
Balance from late Institute             1        8        8  Stationery                           13        4        2
Sale of Newspapers                      8       15        0  Salary                               15       15        0
8 Lectures (Admissions)                10       18        0  Collector                             2       17        6
                                                             Rent                                 19       15        0
                                                             Coals                                 0       19        0
                                                             Sundries                              5        2        3
                                                             Balance to 1853                       1        6       3½
                                £144       13       3½                                          £144       13       3½

LIST OF MEMBERS, 1852

                                               _£_     _s._     _d._
A’Beckett, Mr. G. A., Hyde-park-gate               1        1        0
Adams, Mr., High-street                            1        1        0
Auldjo, Mr., Noel-house                            1        1        0

Bailey, Mr. C., 45, High-street                    1        1        0
Ball, Mr. E., High-street                          1        1        0
Ball, Mr. Jas., Campden-grove                      1        1        0
Barlow, Mr. F. Pratt, Kensington-square            1        1        0
Bayford, Dr., Hornton-villas                       1        1        0
Bellworthy, Mr., Pembroke Cottages                 1        1        0
Bigger, Mr., Allen-terrace                         1        1        0
Bird, Mr. Stephen, Hornton Villa                   1        1        0
Budgen, Mr., High-street                           1        1        0

Carthew, Mr. P., St. Mary Abbott’s-terrace         1        1        0
Chancellor, Mr., The Terrace                       1        1        0
Chesterton, Mr., Lower Phillimore-place            1        1        0
Clarke, Mr., 17, Kensington-square                 1        1        0
Clarke, Rev. C. W., 17, Kensington-square          1        1        0
Colbeck, Mr. T. R., 12, Hornton-street             1        1        0
Collins, Mr., Pembroke-square                      1        1        0
Cooke, Mr., the Fenns, Victoria-road               1        1        0
Couchman, Mr., Lower Phillimore-place              1        1        0
Curtis, Mr., High-street                           1        1        0

Davies, Rev. S. Price, 17, Lower                   2        2        0
Phillimore-pl.
Des Barres, Mr., 21, Bedford-place                 1        1        0
Deacon, Admiral, R.N., Leonard-place               1        1        0
Dickson, Mr., Ladbroke-place West                  1        1        0

Eales, Mr. William, Campden-grove                  1        1        0
Ellis, Mr., Kensington-square                      1        1        0

Fox, General, Addison-road                         2        2        0
Fox, Lady Mary, Addison-road                       1        1        0
Frost, Rev. G., The Square                         1        1        0

Garrard, Mr., Notting-hill-square                  1        1        0
Good, Mr., Palace-green                            1        1        0
Goodeve, Mr., Kensington-square                    1        1        0
Grafton, Major, Sheffield-terrace                  1        1        0

Haines, Mr. John, High-street                      1        1        0
Hall, Mr., Kensington-square                       1        1        0
Hawkes, Mr., S, Foxley-terrace, Earl’s             1        1        0
Court
Henderson, Mr., Hornton-street                     1        1        0
Hessey, Rev. F., D.D., Kensington-square           1        1        0
Heward, Mr., Young-street                          1        1        0
Hewlett; Rev. J. H., Young-street                  1        1        0
Hughes, Mr., 50, High-street                       1        1        0
Hunt, Mr. Joseph, High-street                      1        1        0
Hunt, Mr. William, Church-street                   1        1        0

James, Mr., High-street                            1        1        0
Jennings, Mr., The Terrace                         3        3        0

Kelley, Mr., High-street                           1        1        0
Kite, Mrs., 3, Gordon-place                        1        1        0

Lascelles, The Lady Caroline, Campden-hill         1        1        0
Lasbury, Mr., The Terrace                          1        1        0
Lawrence, Mr., Church-street                       1        1        0
Letchworth, Mr. H. L., 5,                          1        1        0
Kensington-park-gardens
Lomas, Mr., High-street                            1        1        0

Martyn, Rev. Thomas, Holland-street                1        1        0
McInnes, Mr., 1, Clarendon-road                    1        1        0
Merriman, Mr., 45, The Square                      1        1        0
Miley, Mr., 6, Upper Phillimore-place              1        1        0
Moore, Mr. J. Carrick, Hyde-park-gate              1        1        0
Moore, Mrs., J. Carrick, Hyde-park-gate            1        1        0

Philp, Dr., Colby-house                            1        1        0
Philp, Mrs., Colby-house                           1        1        0
Pickering, Mr., Pembroke-road                      1        1        0
Plasket, Mr., 1, Albert-place                      1        1        0
Pollock, Mr., 7, Bath-place                        1        1        0

Radford, Mr., Sheffield-terrace                    1        1        0
Read, Mr., Hornton-street                          1        1        0
Rhodes, Mr., Newland-street                        1        1        0
Richards, Mrs., 16, Sheffield-terrace              1        1        0
Russell, Mr., Church-street                        1        1        0

Senior, Mr. N. W., Hyde-park-gate                  1        1        0
Shaw, Mr. W. A., Wycombe Lodge,                    1        1        0
Campden-hill
Sinclair, Ven. Archdeacon, Vicarage                2        2        0
Slater, Mr., High-street                           1        1        0
Smith, Mr., P., Hornton-street                     1        1        0
Smith, Mr., High-street                            1        1        0
Sperling, Rev. J. H., Palace-gardens               1        1        0
Stanham, Mr. Lewis, Edwardes Cottage               1        1        0
Stanham, Mr. C. R., Edwardes-terrace               1        1        0
Stevens, Mr., Holland-street                       1        1        0

Tassie, Mr., Phillimore-place                      1        1        0
Thompson, Mr. F., St. George’s-terrace             1        1        0
Todd, Mr., High-street                             1        1        0
Turner, Mr., Lower Phillimore-place                1        1        0

Uwins, Mr., Victoria-road                          1        1        0

Vincent, Mr., Thornwood Lodge, Campden-hill        1        1        0
Vallotton, Mr. H. L., 2, Hyde-park-gate            1        1        0

Waddilove, Dr., Ladbroke-place                     1        1        0
Watson, Mr. J., Hyde-part-gate                     1        1        0
Weston, Mr., Hyde-park-gate                        1        1        0
Wheelwright, Dr., Lower Phillimore-place           1        1        0

LIST OF QUARTERLY SUBSCRIBERS

                                               _£_     _s_.     _d._
Allt, Miss, Kensington-square                      0       10        0
Ditto, extra subscription                          0        6        0

Buckmaster, Rev. R. N., Holland-street             0       10        6
Bentham, Mr., High-street, Notting-hill            0       10        0

Calverley, Mr., 4, Grove-terrace,                  0       10        0
Notting-hill

Godfrey, Mr., The Terrace                          0       10        0

Jones, Mr., High-street                            0       10        0
Judson, Mr., High-street                           0       10        6

Kingston, Mr., Holland-place                       0       10        6

Tisdall, Mr., Church-street                        0       10        0
Tisdall, Mr. E., Newland-terrace                   0       10        0

Allen, Miss                                        0        2        6
Amandie, Mr., Allen-terrace                        0        5        0

Baker, Captain, Holland-street                     0        7        6
Batam, Mr., 7, Wiple-place                         0       10        0
Beecher, Mrs.                                      0        2        6
Bendalack, Miss                                    0       10        0
Birch, Mr. H. J., The Terrace                      0       10        0

Cripps, Mr.                                        0        7        6

Devine, Mr. M., Market-court                       0        7        6

Evans, Mrs., 17, Lower Phillimore-place            0        2        6

Godfree, Mrs., Bedford-place                       0        5        0
Grafton, Mr. A., Sheffield-terrace                 0        5        0

Ham, Mr. W., Warwick-road                          0        2        0
Harley, Mr. E., Lower Phillimore-place             0       10        0
Hughes, Miss, 29, Upper Phillimore-place           0        7        6

Knowler, Mr. H., 42, Peel-street                   0        2        6

Lambert, Mr., North-end                            0       10        0
Lindsay, Mr. W., 5, Providence-terrace             0        2        6

Murch, Mr., 9, Charles-street                      0        7        6
Muschamp, Mr., Holland-street                      0        7        6

Oliver, Mr. A., Church-court                       0        2        6
Oxenham, Miss, Upper Phillimore-place              0        7        6

Parlby, Major-General, Kensington-crescent         0        2        6
Parry, Mr., Shepherd’s Bush                        0        7        6
Parry, jun., Mr., Shepherd’s Bush                  0        2        6
Pickard, Mr. J., 2, Holland-place                  0        5        0
Plimley, Mr., Richmond-row, Paddington             0        5        0
Povey, Mr., 23, Sheffield-terrace                  0       10        0

Rea, Mr. Charles, Kensington-palace                0        2        6
Rennie, Mr., Addison-terrace North                 0        5        0
Richardson, Mr., Earl-street                       0        5        0

Scott, Mrs., 42, Queen’s-road                      0        7        6
Stark, Mr. G., 3, Adelaide-terrace                 0       10        0
Stark, Mr. J., 3, Adelaide-terrace                 0        7        6
Stephens, Mr., Campden-grove                       0        7        6

Toms, Mr., Hornton-street                          0        2        6
Trigg, Mrs., Orchard-street                        0        7        6
Tunks, Mr., Kensington-square                      0        5        0

Wellings, Mr., Holland-street                      0        2        6





***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THIRD ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
KENSINGTON PAROCHIAL INSTITUTE***


******* This file should be named 42087-0.txt or 42087-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/4/2/0/8/42087



Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
  www.gutenberg.org/license.


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at 809
North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887.  Email
contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the
Foundation's web site and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit:  www.gutenberg.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For forty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
